---
layout: post
title:  "2025"
date: 2025-01-09 09:02:00 +0200
categories: daily
---

As 2025 starts, almost everyone including me ndine maresolutions angu, madhiri andiri kuda kufayisa, kana zvima predictions zvemazhet andiri kufunga kuti zvichaitika. Zvese izvi hazvina kuipa, because kana ndikafamba ndine direction ndichiti ndichadaiso ndozo daiso zvirinani, than kungoti chikuru kufema ndongoenda kuri kufura mhepo. Iyoyo haibalance manje wena. Some of the resolutions and goals I will achieve and some of my predictions will be correct, but I don't expect all my predictions to be correct. I will be hoping for a pass rate of 50% and more, I will be happy. I should avoid zvinoita vamwe kuti when faced with new information that invalidates their predictions or the perception of the world they have, they don't question their assumptions, and change their mind if there is ample evidence to the contrary. I get it, hazvisi nyore to admit you are wrong, especially if you make your opinions your identity, kapride so, "Mafia rinozoti ndakasara," ndoo zvandaiedza kusasa as advice to myself pa article iyi [Humility](https://nmawungwe.github.io/daily/2024/12/11/Humility.html). What is important is to observe, pay attention, and have humility. 

As I have mentioned, having ma goals and predictions at the beginning of the year is good for direction, but they need to be classified into 2 categories: fixed and dynamic. Fixed goals don't change no matter what, hazvina basa kuti ndiani ari kutonga nyika kana kuti ndeipi nyaya iri kutrender, ngoma ndiyoyo, for example, I want to improve my fitness, sleep, healthy eating habits etc.Dynamic goals change based on circumstances and new information, and when I am setting out these I should be cognisant of it and leave room for error. Dynamic goals are more like a means to accomplishing the fixed goals. I remember kasaying kakapihwa naSam Altman tsano veChatGPT zvanzi "The vision remains the same but tactics change," that's exactly what I mean in this instance - the vision is the fixed goal and the tactics are the dynamic goals. Ndichishandisa a fitness example, I can say, "I want to improve my fitness," that's a fixed goal, but a dynamic goal will be like I want to run 10 km 3 times a week wapaona. Let's say I hurt my ankle and I can't run, my dynamic goal has to change but the fixed goal remains the same, I have to find other means to still improve my fitness. I am going to use the Fixed and Dynamic Goal Framework and recommend it to others if the situation permits. Tobatana next time.

---
### *English version from Claudé with minimal changes from me 😎*

As 2025 starts, almost everyone including myself has their resolutions, plans they want to execute, and predictions they think will happen. All of this isn't bad, because walking with direction saying I'll do this and that is better than just breathing and going wherever the wind blows. That doesn't balance things out. Some of the resolutions and goals I will achieve and some of my predictions will be correct, but I don't expect all my predictions to be correct - I will be hoping for a pass rate of 50% and more, I will be happy. I should avoid doing what others do when faced with new information that invalidates their predictions or their perception of the world - they don't question their assumptions and change their mind even when there's ample evidence to the contrary. I get it, it's not easy to admit you're wrong, especially if you make your opinions your identity, that pride thing, "People will think I'm behind," that's what I was trying to explain as advice to myself in this article [Humility](https://nmawungwe.github.io/daily/2024/12/11/Humility.html). What's important is to observe, pay attention, and have humility.

As I mentioned, having goals and predictions at the beginning of the year is good for direction, but they need to be classified into 2 categories: fixed and dynamic. Fixed goals don't change no matter what, it doesn't matter who's ruling the country or what's trending. Same tune. For example, I want to improve my fitness, sleep, healthy eating habits etc. Dynamic goals change based on circumstances and new information, and when I'm setting these out I should be aware of it and leave room for error. Dynamic goals are more like a means to accomplishing the fixed goals. I remember a saying given by Sam Altman of ChatGPT that goes "The vision remains the same but tactics change," that's exactly what I mean - in this instance the vision is the fixed goal and the tactics are the dynamic goals. Using a fitness example, I can say, "I want to improve my fitness" - that's a fixed goal, but a dynamic goal would be like I want to run 10 km 3 times a week, you see. Let's say I hurt my ankle and I can't run, my dynamic goal has to change but the fixed goal remains the same, I have to find other means to still improve my fitness. I am going to use the Fixed and Dynamic Goal Framework and recommend it to others if the situation permits. Let's catch up next time.
